README.md, before:

Adapted from Daniel Shifmann image/video to ascii originally in p5.js
uses stb_image.h and stb_image_resize.h

to be used in (ft_ascii)[https://github.com/carlocattano/ft_ascii]

Written in c with stb headers only library.

### Usage:

Build the tool

```
./build.sh
```

Run

```
./img2txt <image.[png/jpg]> <size>
```

```
   .'.,,'^-^^^-'    '   '.              .                   .  .
   .'.'''^^^^^-.   .'   ..          '  .'.   .              . .'
   .'.'''^^^^--.   ..   ..          ,'..-'  ,'              '..'
   .....'-^^^-,.  ..    ,,.         ,-''^- '^'              '  '
   ..  .'--^^-,  ',.  ' ,-,      .' 'c.,o-'c-     .         '  '
   ''  .'--^-,'  .-'  ,'.^^  ''  ,^''c.-o'-c .'   ..        . .'
   ''  ''^^^-,.   ',  ,- ,o,  ^' ,o-'o -c o.'^-'..''        . .'
   ''  ''-^^-'.  .''' .c. c^ 'cc''o^ o ,, - -.,,''''        .
   ''  ',-,--'.    .,  ^^ -o. -o^ ^- -  , , '..',,','      ,'
   '' .,''.,-'''    ,, ,o. c,  o- ., ,  - , ''.. '''.    .^o,
  .'' .,    --,'.,'.^c  o- -c  ',  - ., - ''--,,' ..     ,-
  .'. .'    .-^-'^?-,o, -^  ^   ^  -  - ., ^,^',.  ''   -^
  ....''     '-oc^^^ ,^  c  --  ^  '' ,  ^ -,-,,,,,,.. ^c.
  ..'.'.      .oo, -  ^  c   c  '-  -  , ,'',-,c^^--,'co,
 ..   .,'    --c., -  ^  ^'  c.  ^  -  ^  -'^^,coc-^-c?,
..  .-c-.. . -,^'- ^  c  ,-  ,^  -  '. -' ^'^---1?^^^o-
.  'oo-,.'  ,^'^., ^  c  .c   c  .,  - .o ^,^-^o1oc^^,
..-cc^''..  ,-,c , ^  c'  c   ^   -  c  ? -,--coc,--'
',,c^,'.... ',,c , ^' ,-  -,  ,,  ^  -. c -,--^^-','
'-,^^.'''....'.^ - ,,  c   c  .^  -  '- ^.--^^--,'--
.'^'^ -',....' - - .-  c   c   c  ,,  ^ ^'^-^---,,,c
-.c.- c ' ...' - -  ^  c   ^'  o  .^  - -,^^-^-,,-'c,
^.c , ^ , ''.' - -  ^  ^.  --  c.  c  , ,^-^-^-,,-,^,
-'- ' ^ - ''.' - ,' -  ^'  '^  c'  c ..',^^,^--'^-^c^
.-''. ^ - ,' , - ', -  --  .c  ^,  o , -,^^-c-'^'-'.'
 - ,  - - '' , ^ .- ,. ,^   o  ^-  c - - c,c,--',^, .          .
 - - ,' - '' , ^  c ,' '^   o  ,c .- , '--^,c,-',--.,          .
 - - - .,'.' , ^  c.,' 'c   o'  o ',..''^^,^-^.-,,^c^          '
.-', ^ ,',.' - -. -,'' 'o   ^c  c ,.- ,,--^-^'-'^^.^c          '
,,-  ^ -.,., - '- .^,. .o   .1  , - ^.,'-c--,-,-'--,c          '
,,^ '- ^.,.,.-. ^  ^,   ?    oc  ,,.-.,^^--^,-'- .^-^          ,
,,^ -, ^.,''.,, ^' 'c   o,   ,?  ,,-,.-^c^^'^.c ^-^-c          ,
 -- ^'.-.,,', c .^  o   ^o   '1  , ^',^o-^,c.^.'oocco          ,
 ^, c.'-',-'- -, ^. ^'  '1.  '1  - c'^cco-c.^'.c -^o?.         -
 c' c ,,',,,^,.c ,- -,   ?c  ,?  - c,^^ooo'^, o.  ,c1,        .-
 o. o ,''^'-.c.-,.c '^   c?  ,?  - o.-^^o-^- c' ,'.,?^        .-
 o. o -.,,', -^.^ ^  o   -1  -1  -., .c-cc^ c, o?o-'oo        '-
 o  c ^.- -.- c.-.,' o   .1. cO. ^    ,^-c^c^ c, -c^c?        '-
 o  c ^ -.,'c.,,',.^ c'   1. ?O. -     --^^^.-'   c^c?'       ,^
 o  c ^.-,'-'- ^.^'c ^c   1. ?O,.       'c-'.^oo-',cco'       ,^
 o  c ^,,-,' ^.-,^'o.,?   o. ?1-         -- .-,^?o'^oc.       ,^
 o  c.--,,-,,.-.-,,-,.?   ^' oo          ., ,   '?-,oc.       -^
 o  ^'^---'-^ -.-'^,^ o,     c           .-',    '^.cc'      .--
 o  c.^-^-,  ,.,,'^'c -c    ..           ..'. cc' ^-^c'      .-^
 o' c ^-^---'-.,,,-,^..?'                .   .-.oc^?c^,      '--
 c, c.^^^^',,'-',^'-,- ?1o '            .'  ,- .,?1?c^,      ,--
 c,.c,^^^,,-, ,-,-,^'c ^11c-            ''     ,c?1o^^,      ---
 c-,c^^c^-,',^ ^^,-^'o ,1??-            '.    'c^,^o-^-     .-^-
 o--cccc--,-,,-.-,^-,c' o?o'            ,     ..  .-,,,     .---
 ?^cococ^--,-'-^'^^--^, -?c            .'      '   .','     '--^
'?c??ooc^-,,-, ^-^-^^--  ^.            .'     .,'. ''''     ,---
-?o???oo^,-,'c^.cc-c^-c  .             ..     .-,' ','     ',---
c?????oo^--c, -c'^-^^-?,               .      .^-, '-'    .',---
o??1???o^^-'^c ,c'^,c^?o'.                    .,^-',,     '',,--
???11???c-^-.,o'-,^-c^??o.                    .,^-,,.     ',',,-
11111?ooo^',c,'o^^-coc-o^                     ''--.      .,,'',-
11111??oo^^-'c, ,^-o??,,                      .''        .,,'',,
???1???oc^,-^-oc,^c???^,                       .         .-,..',
???????oc^--.' .-^o??oc.                                 .-,..',
??ooo?ooc---cc^,.co?oc.        .                         '^,..',

```

### Image:

zebra.jpg [Author](https://www.publicdomainpictures.net/en/view-image.php?image=455680&picture=zebra)
License: CC0 Public Domain

Commit message:

feat: Added color support for 8 and 256 colors (xterm) feat: Defaults for no size given and system call to retrieve collumn size
optimized rendering to a buffer and then use just one single write at
the end instead of a sys call for every pixel! :-(

README.md, after:

Adapted from Daniel Shifmann image/video to ascii originally in p5.js
uses stb_image.h and stb_image_resize.h

to be used in (ft_ascii)[https://github.com/carlocattano/ft_ascii]

Written in c with stb headers only library.

### Usage:

Build the tool

```
./build.sh
```

Run

```
./img2txt <image.(png/jpg)> [<size>]
```

_img2txt_ picture.jpg, will default to your current terminal size

```
   .'.,,'^-^^^-'    '   '.              .                   .  .
   .'.'''^^^^^-.   .'   ..          '  .'.   .              . .'
   .'.'''^^^^--.   ..   ..          ,'..-'  ,'              '..'
   .....'-^^^-,.  ..    ,,.         ,-''^- '^'              '  '
   ..  .'--^^-,  ',.  ' ,-,      .' 'c.,o-'c-     .         '  '
   ''  .'--^-,'  .-'  ,'.^^  ''  ,^''c.-o'-c .'   ..        . .'
   ''  ''^^^-,.   ',  ,- ,o,  ^' ,o-'o -c o.'^-'..''        . .'
   ''  ''-^^-'.  .''' .c. c^ 'cc''o^ o ,, - -.,,''''        .
   ''  ',-,--'.    .,  ^^ -o. -o^ ^- -  , , '..',,','      ,'
   '' .,''.,-'''    ,, ,o. c,  o- ., ,  - , ''.. '''.    .^o,
  .'' .,    --,'.,'.^c  o- -c  ',  - ., - ''--,,' ..     ,-
  .'. .'    .-^-'^?-,o, -^  ^   ^  -  - ., ^,^',.  ''   -^
  ....''     '-oc^^^ ,^  c  --  ^  '' ,  ^ -,-,,,,,,.. ^c.
  ..'.'.      .oo, -  ^  c   c  '-  -  , ,'',-,c^^--,'co,
 ..   .,'    --c., -  ^  ^'  c.  ^  -  ^  -'^^,coc-^-c?,
..  .-c-.. . -,^'- ^  c  ,-  ,^  -  '. -' ^'^---1?^^^o-
.  'oo-,.'  ,^'^., ^  c  .c   c  .,  - .o ^,^-^o1oc^^,
..-cc^''..  ,-,c , ^  c'  c   ^   -  c  ? -,--coc,--'
',,c^,'.... ',,c , ^' ,-  -,  ,,  ^  -. c -,--^^-','
'-,^^.'''....'.^ - ,,  c   c  .^  -  '- ^.--^^--,'--
.'^'^ -',....' - - .-  c   c   c  ,,  ^ ^'^-^---,,,c
-.c.- c ' ...' - -  ^  c   ^'  o  .^  - -,^^-^-,,-'c,
^.c , ^ , ''.' - -  ^  ^.  --  c.  c  , ,^-^-^-,,-,^,
-'- ' ^ - ''.' - ,' -  ^'  '^  c'  c ..',^^,^--'^-^c^
.-''. ^ - ,' , - ', -  --  .c  ^,  o , -,^^-c-'^'-'.'
 - ,  - - '' , ^ .- ,. ,^   o  ^-  c - - c,c,--',^, .          .
 - - ,' - '' , ^  c ,' '^   o  ,c .- , '--^,c,-',--.,          .
 - - - .,'.' , ^  c.,' 'c   o'  o ',..''^^,^-^.-,,^c^          '
.-', ^ ,',.' - -. -,'' 'o   ^c  c ,.- ,,--^-^'-'^^.^c          '
,,-  ^ -.,., - '- .^,. .o   .1  , - ^.,'-c--,-,-'--,c          '
,,^ '- ^.,.,.-. ^  ^,   ?    oc  ,,.-.,^^--^,-'- .^-^          ,
,,^ -, ^.,''.,, ^' 'c   o,   ,?  ,,-,.-^c^^'^.c ^-^-c          ,
 -- ^'.-.,,', c .^  o   ^o   '1  , ^',^o-^,c.^.'oocco          ,
 ^, c.'-',-'- -, ^. ^'  '1.  '1  - c'^cco-c.^'.c -^o?.         -
 c' c ,,',,,^,.c ,- -,   ?c  ,?  - c,^^ooo'^, o.  ,c1,        .-
 o. o ,''^'-.c.-,.c '^   c?  ,?  - o.-^^o-^- c' ,'.,?^        .-
 o. o -.,,', -^.^ ^  o   -1  -1  -., .c-cc^ c, o?o-'oo        '-
 o  c ^.- -.- c.-.,' o   .1. cO. ^    ,^-c^c^ c, -c^c?        '-
 o  c ^ -.,'c.,,',.^ c'   1. ?O. -     --^^^.-'   c^c?'       ,^
 o  c ^.-,'-'- ^.^'c ^c   1. ?O,.       'c-'.^oo-',cco'       ,^
 o  c ^,,-,' ^.-,^'o.,?   o. ?1-         -- .-,^?o'^oc.       ,^
 o  c.--,,-,,.-.-,,-,.?   ^' oo          ., ,   '?-,oc.       -^
 o  ^'^---'-^ -.-'^,^ o,     c           .-',    '^.cc'      .--
 o  c.^-^-,  ,.,,'^'c -c    ..           ..'. cc' ^-^c'      .-^
 o' c ^-^---'-.,,,-,^..?'                .   .-.oc^?c^,      '--
 c, c.^^^^',,'-',^'-,- ?1o '            .'  ,- .,?1?c^,      ,--
 c,.c,^^^,,-, ,-,-,^'c ^11c-            ''     ,c?1o^^,      ---
 c-,c^^c^-,',^ ^^,-^'o ,1??-            '.    'c^,^o-^-     .-^-
 o--cccc--,-,,-.-,^-,c' o?o'            ,     ..  .-,,,     .---
 ?^cococ^--,-'-^'^^--^, -?c            .'      '   .','     '--^
'?c??ooc^-,,-, ^-^-^^--  ^.            .'     .,'. ''''     ,---
-?o???oo^,-,'c^.cc-c^-c  .             ..     .-,' ','     ',---
c?????oo^--c, -c'^-^^-?,               .      .^-, '-'    .',---
o??1???o^^-'^c ,c'^,c^?o'.                    .,^-',,     '',,--
???11???c-^-.,o'-,^-c^??o.                    .,^-,,.     ',',,-
11111?ooo^',c,'o^^-coc-o^                     ''--.      .,,'',-
11111??oo^^-'c, ,^-o??,,                      .''        .,,'',,
???1???oc^,-^-oc,^c???^,                       .         .-,..',
???????oc^--.' .-^o??oc.                                 .-,..',
??ooo?ooc---cc^,.co?oc.        .                         '^,..',

```

### Image:

zebra.jpg [Author](https://www.publicdomainpictures.net/en/view-image.php?image=455680&picture=zebra)
License: CC0 Public Domain
